.\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Demetrios Obenour
.\" Licensed under the MIT license; see COPYING for its terms
.TH midwife 1 "2015 January 19" Midwife
.SH NAME
midwife \- invoke the appropriate interpreter in a shebang script
.if d mso .mso www.tmac
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmidwife\fI [%\-encoded argument] [SCRIPTFILE] [arguments\-to\-command]
.br
\fBmidwife \-n\fIj filename [arguments\-to\-command]
.br
\fBmidwife3 \fIfilename [arguments\-to\-command]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The #! ("shebang") mechanism is extremely useful for creating scripts
that can be executed via \fBexecve\fR(2), just like binary executables.
However, it suffers from several limitations:
.IP \(em
Handling of whitespace in the argument to the interpreter is not
portable: Darwin splits the argument on whitespace, while Linux does
not.
.IP \(em
No arguments may be passed after the script name but before the
script's arguments
.IP \(em
No way to interpolate the text of arguments in arguments provided to
the command
.P
The usual solution to these problems is a shell script wrapper.
However, this has its own problems:
.IP \(em
Shells are complicated programs.
This makes them both potentially slow to invoke, and vulnerable to
security vulnerabilities (see the "shellshock" bug in Bash).
.IP \(em
Using a shell script wrapper requires writing what is essentially a
polyglot sript where one of the languages is the shell.
This is clumsy and error\-prone, and should not be needed anyway.
.P
Midwife is a solution to these problems.
It has two operating modes:
.IP \(em
In the first mode, a URL\-encoded argument list is supplied as the
first command line argument.
This list is URL\-decoded by Midwife, and the resulting array of
strings becomes the first command line arguments.
It is followed by the filename of the script, and then the script's
arguments.
.IP \(em
In the second mode, the first argument to Midwife is
\fB\-n\fIj\fR where \fIj\fR is the line number of the template for
Midwife to use.
The template line is the entire sequence of characters between the
first and last appearences within it of \fB\-*\-\fR, not including the
\fB\-*\-\fR sequences.
It is passed a template containing a list of strings, into which
variables are substituted.
.P
Specifically, \fB$\fIn\fR and \fB${\fInnn\fB}\fR are both replaced by
the \fIn\fRth positional parameter, if \fBn\fR is an integer (or a
single digit, in the first case).
Note that \fB$0\fR is replaced by the script name.
Otherwise, if n matches [A\-Za\-z_][0\-9A\-Za\-z_]*, the replacement
text is that of the environment variable $n if it exists, or the empty
string otherwise.
C\-style escape sequences are interpreted.
A dollar sign can be escaped by an unescaped backslash.
Arguments are separated by whitespace, but this splitting can be
suppressed by enclosing the string in double quotes.
.P
If the last character of \fBargv[0]\fR is a digit, Midwife
automatically jumps to that line and uses the template found there.
.SH OPTIONS
These options are only recognized when \fBargv[0]\fR does not end with
a digit.
Otherwise, the last character of argv[0] is used as the line to read
the template from.
.HP
.BI \-n j
.br
Jump to the \fIn\fRth line of the file argument
.HP
.BI \-\-help
.br
Display a short help and exit
.HP
.BI \-\-version
.br
Display a version message and exit
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fBexecvp\fR(3) is used to execute the program.
Thus, if the command name is not an absolute path, $PATH is searched
for the executable.
.SH FILES
If the last character of \fBargv[0]\fR is a digit \fIj\fR, or the
\fB\-n\fIj\fR option is given, then the \fIn\fRth line of the next
argument (first argument, if \fBargv[0]\fR ends with a digit, or else
second argument) is used as a template.
It should be the script file.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics from Midwife should be self-explanitory.
Please report it as a bug if they are not.
.SH BUGS
Currently, Midwife is not aware of unicode.
Please report any other bugs you find to
.ie d URL .URL demetriobenour@gmail.com "Demetrios Obenour"
.el Demetrios Obenour <\fIdemetriobenour@gmail.com\fR>
.\" Local Variables:
.\" eval: (add-hook 'write-file-functions 'time-stamp)
.\" eval: (add-hook 'before-save-hook 'time-stamp nil t)
.\" eval: (add-hook 'before-save-hook 'delete-trailing-whitespace nil t)
.\" time-stamp-start: ".TH midwife 1 \""
.\" time-stamp-format: "%:y %:b %02d"
.\" mode: nroff
.\" mode: auto-fill
.\" End:
